12/11/2021

Joshua Tree, California

It was very cold last night but we were encased in sleeping bags and
pillows and blankets and so were pretty well bundled. It got below
freezing though since my water bottle became a slushie.

We drove into Joshua Tree National Park and bought our annual
national parks pass for 2022. Then we drove to the Barker Dam
pullout and did some warmup climbs in the morning. There's a
5.10c finger crack there that I've top-roped several times and
always felt was exceedingly thin and difficult. This time I
floated up it handily on my first try which felt good. The
gear looks really fiddly though so it'll be another try before
I go for the redpoint.

After lunch we hiked into the Wonderland of Rocks area with
my sights set on a climb I spied there over a year ago on
a feature called Foolproof Tower. We were hiking through
last November to a different climb (Mental Physics) and I
saw a striking crack that zigzagged up a tower and just had
to know what it was. It turned out to be High Strung 5.9 but
I didn't get the chance to climb it until today. And it was
worth the wait!

The climb started on an imposing blank vertical face with a thin
seam that widens to fingertips just past the point a 6 foot tall
person could comfortably reach. I fiddled in a nut and my smallest
BD #0.1 cam while on my tiptoes and then climbed back down to rest
my calves. Then I went back up and went for it. The opening 20 feet
was a leaning finger crack with good feet breaking up steep smearing.
I placed 6 or 7 pieces of protection in this first section and was
like "I gotta start putting more space between the gear or else I'll
run out before I'm halfway up!" -- the climb being almost 100 feet tall.

The crack steadily widens from fingertips all the way through fists
and BD #5 offwidth for the last 20 feet. This last section wasn't
too hard, especially with my brand new ultra-light number 5 that
replaced the old #5 I shamefully got stuck in Classic Crack of
Calico two weeks ago outside Las Vegas. And then I was at the top
of High Strung and I had flashed my first Joshua Tree 5.9 on lead!

Afterwards we had a nice 4pm dinner of gnocchi cooked on the side
of the tailgate (because the bike rack inconveniently takes up
the whole backside of the tailgate -- we're still working out the
kinks in our truck-camping setup).
