12/14/2021

Las Vegas, Nevada

Rained today, so we stayed in. The airbnb's hot tub was not
pre-heated for us so we sat around all day watching the temperature
rise bit by bit. It was still only in the 70s by the time we went to bed.

I got Michelle and Libby totally sidetracked with a Pythagorean-themed
Project Euler problem.


12/15/2021

Las Vegas, Nevada

Slow morning, but we eventually went out to climb a bit at a Limestone
Wall called Lone Mountain. The rock quality was perhaps the worst I
have ever encountered. While lowering from my first pitch of the day
I unknowingly stepped on a completely disconnected rock and knocked it
free. I yelled "ROCK ROCK ROCK ROCK ROCK!" as the grapefruit-sized hunk
hurtled towards Catherine. She stepped aside and it missed her by 3 feet!
I've never knocked off a rock bigger than a ping pong ball before and
this was scary. We all had helmets on, of course, but a grapefruit-sized
chunk of limestone is gonna do some damage. We climbed really lightly after
that and ended up calling it a day after just 2 climbs each.

Not going back there.


12/16/2021

Las Vegas, Nevada

Today we drove to the Gold Strike Mine Trail, a canyon trail that spits
you out at the Colorado River just around the corner from the Hoover Dam.
Near the river, hot springs well up from the ground and feel like hot tubs.
The fungus growing there was so large, colorful, and gooey I felt like I
wouldn't be surprised if it was casually and quietly sentient.

Catherine read about how if you scrambled upstream a bit there's an
old mining tunnel that is like a natural sauna. We went to check it out
while Catherine told me what else she read about it. Apparently the steam
inside gets so hot the further in you go that no one can bear to venture
in more than about 50 feet, and apparently if you do go back there you
can find the dead bodies of the original miners from 100 years ago
who were instantly killed when they struck the source of the steam.

I was skeptical of all this. For one, if it's so hot and steamy in there
why isn't there steam rising out of the cave? Plus they just left those
guys' bodies there and didn't even seal off the entrance or anything?
But anyway we made it over to the tunnel and I became a believer. The
cave was about 5 feet high and 6 feet tall with
hot-tub hot knee-high water going back into utter darkness. After stepping in
more than about 5 feet, the humidity in the air was stifling. We ventured
about 20 feet in by the light of Catherine's phone before fear of kicking a
pile of bones, and fear of suffocating, and fear of fainting from the
heat, and fear of toxic algae blooms turned us around.

Back at the regular hot springs on the trail, a large group of young women
each with a baby and a Trump or religion-themed shirt had congregated.
They were like some kind of cult. Catherine dubbed them the sister wives.
We didn't really interact with them except I was impressed/anxious that
they had made it down here babies in tow, and also they were playing obnoxiously
loud music.


12/17/2021

Las Vegas, Nevada

It seemed dry enough today to climb. Catherine, Jimmy, and I went to
Kraft to boulder while Michelle and Libby did some trad cragging.
Catherine biked the scenic loop in the morning while Jimmy and I
started bouldering. We climbed the Potato Chip boulder but it
seemed too wet there still to be in good form. Then we tried
Jones'n V4. I got to the top-out once or twice but wasn't confident
enough to commit to going over. It still felt good to dial the
lower down beta though as it is pretty overhung.

Then later in the afternoon we tried The Pearl V5 and neither
of us could do the first move, but I was able to get pretty
close to grabbing the next hold and improved at it over
several attempts. Despite not sending anything harder than V2 again
I feel like I'm still improving at bouldering. Specifically
the aspect on harder climbs where I have to split my focus
between each limb to maintain the proper tension at all times.
I'm more used to a set-it-and-forget-it approach to climbing
where each limb is as relaxed as possible when I'm not moving it.
Whereas on these harder boulders I have to maintain constant
tension everywhere to keep from falling.
